99% of people are not willing to do, what it takes make their dreams come true.

The Marines have a saying: "Everybody wants to go to heaven, but nobody wants to die"

The center of bringing any dream into fruition is self discipline

You know, something as simple as food and eating... it's not about your body as much as it is about your mind.

It's getting command of your mind to be able to choose actions that are in your own best interest.

Every day we are choosing stuff that's not in our own best interest.

So if the world is attacking you and the world wants to fight you and the world's trying to hold you down.

So you're gonna kick yourself in the balls.

So you will stop yourself from getting what you dream.

And I think the word "discipline" has kind of gotten a bad name.

We think about it in terms of punishment.

I'm not talking about discipline in that way.

I'm talking about discipline in the sense that you you forego immediate pleasure

for the exchange of long-term self-respect.

I believe that self-discipline is the definition of self-love that when you say that you love yourself

that means that you have behavior towards yourself.

That is loving

Self-discipline is the center of all material success.

You cannot win the war against the world if you can't win the war against your own mind.

Self-love is when you say to yourself

Man, look I know you and that girl got a real connection

I know y'all vibe, but that's your girl's cousin. So I love you too much to let you do that

It's like you say to yourself hey man look

I know you want to eat that pizza and it'll be really good, you know, but I can't let you eat that man

cuz if you eat that pizza, you're gonna feel like crap

You know, and I I just I love you too much to let you eat that

Self-love is a look. I know you got a a test on Monday, you know

and I know you really want to go out with your friends and Saturday night you want to go out but

If you fail that test, you're not gonna feel good about yourself

You know, I just I love you too much to let you go out tonight

Self-discipline is Self-love. 

If you wanna be happy you have to love yourself Which means you have to discipline your behavior

The road to Sustained happiness is through Disciplining your behavior. 

We tend to base our self-esteem on what other people think and

That's not really self-esteem. 

self-esteem is supposed to be how we feel about ourselves

and I was just saying how dangerous it is to

allow other people to determine how you're going to feel about you and it's kind of like

looking into a broken mirror.

You're gonna look in a broken mirror and then change your face to try to look good in this defiled, busted

broken mirror and

it just other people's opinions. There's a really crappy way to determine how we feel about ourselves.

It doesn't matter whose fault it is that something is broken if it's your responsibility to fix it

For example, it's not somebody's fault if their father was an abusive alcoholic.

But it's for damn sure their responsibility

to figure out how they're gonna do with those traumas and try to make a life out of it

It's not your fault if your partner cheated and ruined your marriage

But it is for damn sure your responsibility to figure out how to take that pain and how to overcome that and build a happy life for yourself.

Fault and responsibility do not go together. It sucks, but they don't.

When something is somebody's fault we want them to suffer.

We want them punished. We want them to pay. We want it to be their responsibility to fix it

but that's not how it works, especially when it's your heart.

Your heart, your life, your happiness is your responsibility and your responsibility alone

As long as we're pointing the finger and stuck in whose fault

Something is, we're jammed and trapped into victim mode when you're in victim mode

You're stuck in suffering. The road to power is in taking responsibility

Your heart, your life, your happiness is your responsibility and your responsibility alone.

You can make a person smile, you can make a person feel good, you can make a person laugh

but whether or not a person is happy is deeply and totally and utterly out of your control

The prerequisite for spending time with any person is that they nourish and inspire you

They feed your flame. Look at your last five text messages.

Are those people feeding your flames or dousing your fire?

Put your phone down for just a second and look around

Look to the people around you

Are those people throwing logs on your fire or they pissing on it?

I want my life, I want my work, my family.

I want it to mean something and it's like it has- if you are not making someone else's life better than you're wasting your time.

The separation of talent and skill is one of the the the greatest misunderstood concepts for people who are trying to excel who have dreams that want to do things.

Talent you have naturally. Skill is only developed by hours and hours and hours of beating on your craft.

You don't try to build a wall

You don't set out to build a wall. You don't say I'm the biggest, baddest, greatest wall that's ever been built.

You don't start there. You say I'm gonna lay this brick as perfectly as a brick can be laid.

There will not be one brick on the face of the earth that's gonna be laid better than this brick that I'm gonna lay in this next 10 minutes.

And you do that every single day.

And soon you have a wall and I think psychologically

the advantage that that gives me over over a lot of people that I

have been in competition with in different situations is

it's difficult to take the first step when you look how big

the task is.

The definition of who I am is very clear to me and it also

redefines who I want to be

in that I

know for a fact that

I'm stronger than I thought I was you know, you can't help but ask yourself the question. What would I do if I was in

Muhammad Ali's shoes?

I'm motivated by fear. I

hate being

scared to do something.

And I think what developed in my early days

Was the the attitude that I started attacking things.

I was scared

Why were you scared in your bed the night before?

Why did you- what do you need that fear for just don't go?

Why are you scared in your bed 16 hours before you jump? Why are you scared in the car?

Why could you not enjoy breakfast?

fear is

Fear of what? You're nowhere even near the airplane. Everything up to the stepping out

There's actually no reason to be scared. It only just ruins your day

You're- you don't have to jump and then in that moment all of a sudden where you should be terrified is the most blissful

Experience of your life and God placed the best things in life on the other side of terror.
